♪ [music] ♪
One of the things that I really like about
React is that it forces you to write well
structured code, and I feel like as I've
learned React over the years I've become a
much better and stronger JavaScript
developer. Sometimes things in React seem
a little bit harder than they actually
have to be, and that's just because React
is forcing us to write really well
structured and modular components.
One of the things that we can use to make
these modular components is something
called PropTypes. Now we're making
these components here and eventually
what's going to happen is that
you're going to want to share them.
You might want to share them with your
coworkers that are working on the same
application as you or just share them at
open source on the internet,
and one thing that we can use is called
PropTypes which will allow us to validate
the data that is coming into our actual
components. So what that means is,
I've got this header here and this header
relies on us taking in a Prop of tagline,
and we need to know that that is a string.
Now we built it so we know that, that is a
string, however, let's say I built this
actual component and then someone else on
my team was using the component. They
need to know what needs to be passed to
that specific component, whether it's a
string of tagline, or a number, or
function, or an object or you get the
point, right? So what I want to then do is
we're going to make our components a
little bit more resilient by going through
everything, all the components that we've
built, and adding PropTypes to them.
So I'm just going to take a look at an
example, I just pulled up a random react
component here, this one's called react-
tabs, and you can see that they have
PropTypes here which are, they have
children, which could be an array, an
object or a string. They have a class name
so they're expecting someone to pass a
class name of string, if they pass an idea
it should be a string, if it's selected it
has to be true or false, nothing else. A
style could be an object and the tabId
needs to be a string. So those are all the
things that this component needs to
actually run and it needs to either be
exactly the one that they pass or one of
an array, an object or a string. So that
just helps me as a user use this component
because it's going to yell at me
if I don't use this properly.
So let's close this down, let's
open up our header js and do a
really simple one here. We've got our
header and we want to go below where we
actually declare this component here and
we're going to say Header.PropTypes equals
and it's going to be an object. Now we
just need to specify every single Prop
that is used in that component. In this
case, it's just tagline, and then we
specify it is going to be a
React.PropTypes, now that's capital P and
then .string. Now there's a
whole bunch of different
types of PropTypes and we can take a look
at them one sec. If you look at the Prop
validation on the React documentation, you
can see that there's examples of all
different kinds of PropTypes that you're
going to be going through as well as the
ability to do custom Prop validation if
you have something that's very specific to
your needs. So here, we have React.
PropTypes.string. If I give that a save
and this thing refreshes, nothing happens.
However, watch if I were then to go into
our app.js where we use header, and let's
say instead of passing it fresh seafood
market, but we pass it a number of 500. It
then yells at us and says, "Failed
PropType, invalid Prop tagline of number
supplied to header expected string,"
so these warnings are only shown in
development if you push this to
production it's not going to show you any
of this. But as you're developing,
if I was a user, if I was someone else on
the team I would immediately know that oh,
I didn't pass in the right thing or I
didn't pass in it at all.
So what if I pass nothing at all, I just
do header? Nothing happens but, like, you
can see we have a bit of a broken
component, so what we could do is we go
back to our header and we add .isrequired
to the end, and then it's going to yell
at us for not "Failed PropType,
required PropType tagline was not
specified." So in this case, we didn't
specify anything, in this case, we
specified a number so we need to go all
the way back to when we did a string and
then nothing happens. So sort of the rule
of thumb that you should do is anytime
that you pass a Prop into a component and
you use it, just take a second, pause and
declare that actual PropType at the time
of doing it. So now, we're going to go
through the rest of
them and re-declare them,
so let's go to our components folder here
and let's start with our AddFishForm and
we'll see where did we use Props and we
passed in the addFish anywhere else we
used Props? Nope, that's it, so we'll go
to the bottom here say AddFishForm.
PropTypes equals addFish and we say
React.PropTypes, again make sure
it's a capital P dot in.
what type is it? Well it gets passed in as
a function and if we go to the React
docs here, you'll notice that bouillon and
function are not spelled as bouillon and
function I guess because they're reserved
words so we have to say func,
which is kind of fun to say, and then is
required. Press save and it should then
work if I change this to object, it's
going to break on us because it is
actually passing a function when we asked
for an object so it should be func.
Let's go to the next one, app and let's
look where did we use Props.
We used it for params and just for params,
good. Go to the bottom here say App.
PropTypes equals params react.PropTypes,
capital P dot...so we're passing in an
object here, so just say the word object
and is required. Good now, let's just go
through all of them right now if you sort
of get the point what I would encourage
you to do is try to do them yourself,
otherwise if you want to come along for
the ride with me we can. So I'm going to
open up fish here, I'm going to look,
we have details, index, add to
order and it's just those three,
good. So fish.PropTypes I'm going to make
them all function right now and then we'll
go through each one so details is an
object, index is a number and add to order
is a function, good. Let's see
if it yells at us for anything,
oh good! Invalid Prop index, oh it should
be not a... We passed it in as a string I
guess not as a number. Good, next one,
header already did it. Inventory,
Props so fishes, updateFish,
removeFish and I think that's it.
Oh, addFish and loadSamples. Good
lots of them here. Inventory.
PropTypes. So fishes is going to be an
object, updateFish is going to be a
function, removeFish is a function,
addFish is a function and loadSamples is a
function, good. See if it yells at us,
nope we're in good shape.
Not found, doesn't take in any Props,
good. Order, fishes, order,
removeFromOrder, fishes, Order
fishes order, got that one.
One cool thing you can do
sometimes is, I'll just grab them all,
anywhere that it says Props I'll just grab
whatever's after it and then I will create
my order.PropTypes here. And then I will
paste them all in and sometimes there's
going to be duplicates here, so I'll just
use sublime text and I'll type in unique,
if you can spell unique it'd be great. I
can't see because there's a microphone in
front of my keyboard, here we go, unique
and that will just make them unique right,
and then we'll grab all of them React.
PropTypes.func.isRequired so fishes in
order is going to be an object and
removeFromOrder is going to be a function.
Good last one, star picker, you notice
that we already have context types and
remember we use PropTypes here, that's
just because we want it to surface the
react-router that would allow us to use
transition too, but it doesn't look like
we used Props in this component at
all. Good, so just doing that is going to
make your component much more resilient
and stop us from either passing the wrong
type of data and getting errors,
or not passing the data at all.